Problem Solving Patterns 

Frequency Counter 
🔹Determine the number of occurrences of each unique element in a dataset.
🔹You would create a dictionary and then store the elements in that diciton that hold a value (number of times you see it in an array)
💡Used when dealing with 
    -Count the number of occurances 
    -When you want to avoid using nested for loops (increase time output)
    -Finding Duplicates 
    -Finding most/least frequent elements
🔹 Example Problems:
    📌Two Sum (unsorted array)
    📌Anagram detection
    📌First non-repeating character
    📌Finding majority elements

Two Pointers 
🔹An efficient way to solve problems that involve searching, sorting, or comparing elements in an array or string. 
🔹It uses two separate pointers (indexes) that move towards each other or in the same direction to optimize space and time complexity.
🔹Anytime you see SORTED or find a pair it is usually two pointers 
💡Used when dealing with 
    -Sorted arrays (e.g., searching for pairs).
    -Modifying arrays in-place without extra space.
    -Comparing elements from both ends.
🔹Example Problems 
    📌Two sum (sorted array)
    📌Remove duplicates from a sorted array
    📌Valid palindrome
    📌Container with most water (max area)

Sliding Window 
🔹Is an optimization method used for problems that involve contiguous subarrays or substrings. 
🔹Instead of recalculating values from scratch (which can be slow), we use a moving window to process elements efficiently.
🔹Types of Sliding Window
    -Fixed - Used when the window size is given explicitly.
    -Variable - Used when the window size changes dynamically based on a condition.
    -Dynamic - Used for problems related to strings and substrings.
💡Used when dealing with 
    -Contiguous sequences (arrays/strings).
    -Problems involving sums, averages, min/max values.
    -Finding the longest/shortest subarray with a condition.
🔹Example Problems 
    📌Maximum sum of a subarray of size K
    📌Longest substring without repeating characters
    📌Smallest subarray with a sum ≥ target

LinkedLists
🔹Not as common to show up but still good to know 
💡Used when dealing with
    -Pointer Manipulation
        -Moving nodes, reversing a list, merging lists.
    -Cycle Detection
        -Finding loops using the Fast & Slow Pointers technique.
    -Modifying a List In-Place
        -Removing a node, finding the middle node, deleting duplicates.
    -Recursive Solutions
        -Reversing a list, flattening linked lists, deep copying.
🔹Example Problems 
    📌Reverse a LinkedList
    📌Detect a Cycle
    📌Find the middle of a LinkedList
    📌Merge two sorted LinkedList
    📌Remove Nth Node from End of List

Hash Maps
🔹Essentially a dictionary 
🔹Allow for fast lookups, insertions, and deletions
🔹UKEY WORDS WHEN USING HASH MAPS (lookups, counting, and tracking relationships.)
🔹Kind of similar to frequency counter except instead of JUST counting the frequencies you can do MUCH more
💡Used when dealing with
    -Finding Duplicates
    -Check if an element exists
    -Count occurance of elements
🔹Example Problems 
    📌Two Sum
    📌First Non-Repeating Character
    📌Group Anagrams
    📌Longest Consecutive Sequence
    📌Find Duplicate Number

Binary Search
🔹Algorithm that helps in finding an element in a sorted array
🔹Instead of searching every element it cuts its time in half 
🔹If I say to pick a number between 1-10 and u guess 5 I would say higher or lower. You would then know what numbers to exclude
💡Used when dealing with
    -Anything sorted array related
🔹Example Problems
    📌Classic Binary Search (Find an Element in a Sorted Array)
    📌Find First and Last Occurrence of an Element
    📌Search in a Rotated Sorted Array
    📌Find Peak Element
    📌Search in an Infinite Sorted Array